The generators G_XtoY and G_YtoX take in one kind of image as input.
For example, G_XtoY should take in an image from the X domain
and it will output a transformed image that looks like it belongs to the other domain,
in this case, the Y domain.
These generators look a bit like auto-encoders.
They're made of an encoder portion,
a convolutional net that's responsible for training an image into
a smaller feature representation and a decoder portion,
a transpose-convolutional net that's responsible for taking
a smaller representation and turning it into a transformed image.
There's one big difference here though and that's
in-between the encoder and decoder portions.
In-between these two portions are a series of residual blocks,
usually between six and nine or even more residual blocks for larger images.
This is what we'll discuss before talking about this complete architecture.
Since these residual blocks are a new piece in this CycleGAN generator,
I want to spend some time explaining what they are and
how they work before talking about the generator as a whole.
To complete these blocks,
I'll be asking you to define a residual block class.
It may help to think about where you might have heard the term residual before.
In the lesson on convolutional neural networks,
we briefly mentioned the Resnet-50 architecture for image classification,
which looks like this.
It's a series of convolutional layers and you can
see these loop like connections between a couple of layers.
These two layers where the input and output are connected are called Resnet blocks.
These blocks are made of layers that have the same number of inputs as
outputs and they sum up the output of one layer with the input of a previous layer.
The motivation for this kind of structure is that
researchers found a problem with very deep networks.
During training, they would see that deeper networks would
stop learning at some point and wouldn't reach convergence.
This is sometimes called training degradation.
Essentially, the training accuracy would get saturated at some point
and then the network would either never improve or even become worse.
One solution to this problem is to use resonant blocks that are allowed to
learn so-called residual functions as they're applied to layer inputs.
You can read more about this proposed architecture in
the paper Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition, which I've linked here.
Now, usually in a model,
we'll have one layer that looks at an input X and directly produces an output Y.
With Resnet blocks, the idea is that the end of
a deep layer we can add an additional layer too like these ones pictured.
These layers will have the same number of outputs as
inputs and so they're not changing the shape of the input data.
The key behavior is that a Resnet block sums up the inputs it sees with its outputs.
So, here, the residual function is called F of x
and it's just a couple of what are usually convolutional layers.
After an input x travels through these two convolutional layers,
F of x, then we add these two things up.
So, Resnet block creates a connection between the output of
these layers with the original input using a simple summation.
So, instead of one layer that warrants a direct mapping between input x and output Y,
a Resnet block learns a different kind of mapping from
an input x to x plus this residual function.
I've written a bit more about the mathematical details here, but basically,
with the addition of a residual block,
we've gone from a direct mapping to one that relies on a residual function F of x.
It turns out to be easier to optimize this residual function than the direct mapping.
All right. So, that's a lot of information about residual blocks.
The way we'll build them will actually be quite simple.
The residual block class is just an extension of the module class.
It's defined just like
any other neural network with an init function and a void function.
Our residual blocks will consist of
two convolutional layers with batch normalization applied to their outputs.
Together, these layers should take in some input and
produce an output of the exact same size.
I suggest you use a Kernel size of three for the convolutional layers.
You should also apply a ReLu activation to the outputs of the first convolutional layer.
You can use our helper conv function from above to help you complete this class.
Completing this residual block will start you
on your way to completing the generator class.
I'll talk about the entire generator architecture next.